README.md, before:

# clipboard-rs

[![Latest version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/clipboard-rs?color=mediumvioletred)](https://crates.io/crates/clipboard-rs)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/clipboard-rs/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/clipboard-rs)
![GitHub Actions Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ChurchTao/clipboard-rs/test.yml)
![MSRV](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.63+-blue.svg)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ChurchTao/clipboard-rs)

clipboard-rs is a cross-platform library written in Rust for getting and setting the system-level clipboard content. It supports Linux, Windows, and MacOS.

[简体中文](README_ZH.md)

## Function Support

- Plain text
- Html
- Rich text
- Image (In `PNG` format)
- File (In `file-uri-list` format)
- Any type (by specifying the type identifier) can be obtained through the `available_formats` method

## Development Plan

- [x] MacOS Support
- [x] Linux Support (x11)
- [x] Windows Support

## Usage

Add the following content to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
clipboard-rs = "0.2.0"
```

## [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md)

## Examples

### All Usage Examples

[Examples](examples)

### Simple Read and Write

```rust
use clipboard_rs::{Clipboard, ClipboardContext, ContentFormat};

fn main() {
	let ctx = ClipboardContext::new().unwrap();
	let types = ctx.available_formats().unwrap();
	println!("{:?}", types);

	let has_rtf = ctx.has(ContentFormat::Rtf);
	println!("has_rtf={}", has_rtf);

	let rtf = ctx.get_rich_text().unwrap_or("".to_string());

	println!("rtf={}", rtf);

	let has_html = ctx.has(ContentFormat::Html);
	println!("has_html={}", has_html);

	let html = ctx.get_html().unwrap_or("".to_string());

	println!("html={}", html);

	let content = ctx.get_text().unwrap_or("".to_string());

	println!("txt={}", content);
}

```

### Reading Images

```rust
use clipboard_rs::{common::RustImage, Clipboard, ClipboardContext};

const TMP_PATH: &str = "/tmp/";

fn main() {
	let ctx = ClipboardContext::new().unwrap();
	let types = ctx.available_formats().unwrap();
	println!("{:?}", types);

	let img = ctx.get_image();

	match img {
		Ok(img) => {
			img.save_to_path(format!("{}test.png", TMP_PATH).as_str())
				.unwrap();

			let resize_img = img.thumbnail(300, 300).unwrap();

			resize_img
				.save_to_path(format!("{}test_thumbnail.png", TMP_PATH).as_str())
				.unwrap();
		}
		Err(err) => {
			println!("err={}", err);
		}
	}
}

```

### Reading Any Format

```rust
use clipboard_rs::{Clipboard, ClipboardContext};

fn main() {
    let ctx = ClipboardContext::new().unwrap();
    let types = ctx.available_formats().unwrap();
    println!("{:?}", types);

    let buffer = ctx.get_buffer("public.html").unwrap();

    let string = String::from_utf8(buffer).unwrap();

    println!("{}", string);
}

```

### Listening to Clipboard Changes

```rust
use clipboard_rs::{
	Clipboard, ClipboardContext, ClipboardHandler, ClipboardWatcher, ClipboardWatcherContext,
};
use std::{thread, time::Duration};

struct Manager {
	ctx: ClipboardContext,
}

impl Manager {
	pub fn new() -> Self {
		let ctx = ClipboardContext::new().unwrap();
		Manager { ctx }
	}
}

impl ClipboardHandler for Manager {
	fn on_clipboard_change(&mut self) {
		println!(
			"on_clipboard_change, txt = {}",
			self.ctx.get_text().unwrap()
		);
	}
}

fn main() {
	let manager = Manager::new();

	let mut watcher = ClipboardWatcherContext::new().unwrap();

	let watcher_shutdown = watcher.add_handler(manager).get_shutdown_channel();

	thread::spawn(move || {
		thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(5));
		println!("stop watch!");
		watcher_shutdown.stop();
	});

	println!("start watch!");
	watcher.start_watch();
}


```

## Contributing

You are welcome to submit PRs and issues and contribute your code or ideas to the project. Due to my limited level, the library may also have bugs. You are welcome to point them out and I will modify them as soon as possible.

## Thanks

- API design is inspired by [electron](https://www.electronjs.org/zh/docs/latest/api/clipboard)
- Linux part of the project code is referenced from [x11-clipboard](https://github.com/quininer/x11-clipboard/tree/master)

## Contract

if you have any questions, you can contact me by email: `swkzymlyy@gmail.com`

Chinese users can also contact me by wechatNo: `uniq_idx_church_lynn`

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

First pass at implementing configurable read timeout for X11

README.md, after:

# clipboard-rs

[![Latest version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/clipboard-rs?color=mediumvioletred)](https://crates.io/crates/clipboard-rs)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/clipboard-rs/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/clipboard-rs)
![GitHub Actions Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/ChurchTao/clipboard-rs/test.yml)
![MSRV](https://img.shields.io/badge/rustc-1.63+-blue.svg)
![GitHub License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/ChurchTao/clipboard-rs)

clipboard-rs is a cross-platform library written in Rust for getting and setting the system-level clipboard content. It supports Linux, Windows, and MacOS.

[简体中文](README_ZH.md)

## Function Support

- Plain text
- Html
- Rich text
- Image (In `PNG` format)
- File (In `file-uri-list` format)
- Any type (by specifying the type identifier) can be obtained through the `available_formats` method

## Development Plan

- [x] MacOS Support
- [x] Linux Support (x11)
- [x] Windows Support

## Usage

Add the following content to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
clipboard-rs = "0.2.0"
```

## [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md)

## Examples

### All Usage Examples

[Examples](examples)

### Simple Read and Write

```rust
use clipboard_rs::{Clipboard, ClipboardContext, ContentFormat};

fn main() {
	let ctx = ClipboardContext::new().unwrap();
	let types = ctx.available_formats().unwrap();
	println!("{:?}", types);

	let has_rtf = ctx.has(ContentFormat::Rtf);
	println!("has_rtf={}", has_rtf);

	let rtf = ctx.get_rich_text().unwrap_or("".to_string());

	println!("rtf={}", rtf);

	let has_html = ctx.has(ContentFormat::Html);
	println!("has_html={}", has_html);

	let html = ctx.get_html().unwrap_or("".to_string());

	println!("html={}", html);

	let content = ctx.get_text().unwrap_or("".to_string());

	println!("txt={}", content);
}

```

### Reading Images

```rust
use clipboard_rs::{common::RustImage, Clipboard, ClipboardContext};

const TMP_PATH: &str = "/tmp/";

fn main() {
	let ctx = ClipboardContext::new().unwrap();
	let types = ctx.available_formats().unwrap();
	println!("{:?}", types);

	let img = ctx.get_image();

	match img {
		Ok(img) => {
			img.save_to_path(format!("{}test.png", TMP_PATH).as_str())
				.unwrap();

			let resize_img = img.thumbnail(300, 300).unwrap();

			resize_img
				.save_to_path(format!("{}test_thumbnail.png", TMP_PATH).as_str())
				.unwrap();
		}
		Err(err) => {
			println!("err={}", err);
		}
	}
}

```

### Reading Any Format

```rust
use clipboard_rs::{Clipboard, ClipboardContext};

fn main() {
    let ctx = ClipboardContext::new().unwrap();
    let types = ctx.available_formats().unwrap();
    println!("{:?}", types);

    let buffer = ctx.get_buffer("public.html").unwrap();

    let string = String::from_utf8(buffer).unwrap();

    println!("{}", string);
}

```

### Listening to Clipboard Changes

```rust
use clipboard_rs::{
	Clipboard, ClipboardContext, ClipboardHandler, ClipboardWatcher, ClipboardWatcherContext,
};
use std::{thread, time::Duration};

struct Manager {
	ctx: ClipboardContext,
}

impl Manager {
	pub fn new() -> Self {
		let ctx = ClipboardContext::new().unwrap();
		Manager { ctx }
	}
}

impl ClipboardHandler for Manager {
	fn on_clipboard_change(&mut self) {
		println!(
			"on_clipboard_change, txt = {}",
			self.ctx.get_text().unwrap()
		);
	}
}

fn main() {
	let manager = Manager::new();

	let mut watcher = ClipboardWatcherContext::new().unwrap();

	let watcher_shutdown = watcher.add_handler(manager).get_shutdown_channel();

	thread::spawn(move || {
		thread::sleep(Duration::from_secs(5));
		println!("stop watch!");
		watcher_shutdown.stop();
	});

	println!("start watch!");
	watcher.start_watch();
}


```

## X11 - Clipboard Read Timeout

By default, in X11 clipboard-rs implements a read timeout of 500 ms.  You can override or disable this timeout by creating **ClipboardContext** using `new_with_options`:

```rust
#[cfg(unix)]
fn setup_clipboard() -> ClipboardContext {
	ClipboardContext::new_with_options(ClipboardContextX11Options { read_timeout: None }).unwrap()
}

#[cfg(not(unix))]
fn setup_clipboard(ctx: &mut ClipboardContext) -> ClipboardContext{
	ClipboardContext::new().unwrap()
}
```

## Contributing

You are welcome to submit PRs and issues and contribute your code or ideas to the project. Due to my limited level, the library may also have bugs. You are welcome to point them out and I will modify them as soon as possible.

## Thanks

- API design is inspired by [electron](https://www.electronjs.org/zh/docs/latest/api/clipboard)
- Linux part of the project code is referenced from [x11-clipboard](https://github.com/quininer/x11-clipboard/tree/master)

## Contract

if you have any questions, you can contact me by email: `swkzymlyy@gmail.com`

Chinese users can also contact me by wechatNo: `uniq_idx_church_lynn`

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
